welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meaning it's May 11th 2003 and
it's every week we go over the stuff
that we've done in the past week and
plan to do next week and discuss any
agenda items you might have or answer
questions from anyone so um I start with
myself so in the past week I finally did
a bit of rust work again um some word on
the multi-format stuff so there was a
release of rust multi hash and rust CID
the other major change was that now the
code for having your custom correct
ableism and so now yeah you can have
your own custom product table and the
other big change recycled ii was david
contributor to eiffel the recycle DM did
a huge change on the kodick trade which
is kind of like more less the central
piece of one piece of APD which is about
the Codex and how you encode it okay
decode staffed and there the trade was
perfected and it's better than it used
to be and also with this PR some things
moved out of what we call core IP le
into other parts of IL d and for example
the storage stuff so because I said like
storage itself shouldn't be long early
to the core but it's just like a
separate thing and we couldn't agree on
a block API yet but I'm yeah so my
proposals up but I now poured the my
proposal to the new correct trade
probably this week and then we go from
there with the discussions and then I
also worked a bit on that tech choice on
spec
the stuff there's one more PR which is
just renaming the file and I think then
I considered egg chase and probably
specified and done yeah that's all I did
so next on my list it's rod
okay throw me that my week has been
swallowed by Bitcoin really deep in this
stuff in it but I made really good
progress just just slower than I
imagined so I can now produce a full
graph from a block I can decompose a
block into all the component IP LD
blocks including the two merkel graphs
and the witness commitment block i
haven't verified that yet though i'm
still stuck and that's rep stuck on
weekend when i haven't quite got the
reassembly you know so i can't quite do
that there and back again and test that
it's all working that's that that will
be the critical pay piece that i can
take a single Bitcoin block and sort of
shatter it into all these IP LD blocks
and then take the reverse I'm gonna get
bite for bite the original that's the
ultimate goal
yes I'm blocked on incompatibility with
car files whole point of the whole point
of the car file work I did in the chat
the other one Zipcar files the reason I
started working on them in the first
place before they became important to
file calling and others was because I
wanted to use in protest roosters
portable text for test fixtures on my
PLD work and so I was you couldn't try
to plug this in here
initially for testing so that I can take
a very large graph store it somewhere
and then bring it back again and that
was supposed to be perfect but cuz I'm
now toying with Michael's new multi
formats and the caliph al start works
with the old days block and CID model
it's incompatible in really nasty ways
and so it should just be a matter of
just you know make a file and throw
blocks out like it should be really
simple but it's just error for
very sad so I have to now choose which
react to shave to make that work
bothering me for the last day so if I
get this if I get this PR reviewed for
multi formats for the buffer stuff I can
then move on to porting block and I
think I can probably get block to you
like sometime tomorrow but did you have
a new block API I think in behind it are
you gonna put Rita into block and get
out of codec interface is that that's
yeah yeah yeah readers gonna go into
block okay that makes it that's what I
was thinking cuz I was thinking I could
I could tackle that a bit much no no I'm
just gonna put it in the block API
because like then if you want to provide
a better reader you provided to the
block API rather than doesn't make sense
to provide it okay well if it doesn't
like one of those pieces it just floats
around okay do you guys have a nice like
together that would be easy to review
without blocking because not exactly
probability of an output that we produce
sometime soon it might be good to
explain what's going on here mm-hmm
because this is like generation 3 now
yeah so I want to ship the new block API
and all the new codec changes and all
the new hashing functions once all of
that is out and we've updated like all
the internal IP of these stuff to the
new block API on top of all of this then
I'll prepare a talk and documentation
for the other teams like to sort of
explain what it is how it all works so
that would probably be the time when we
want to fit them in anyway this is not
it's not a lot nobody read this is a
criticism because I actually really
enjoy bringing you not before that stuff
it's just it's it's so nice to work on
these things in isolation cuz in
pass we've have to you know you just
want to say you just want to write
seawall blocks and you'll install that
and suddenly you've got Z cash in your
dependency tree and this thing's just
they just have so big and heavy weight
this the new model that Michaels come up
with is you're just dealing with these
isolated pieces that you want and even
in your tests you can narrow it went
down just one thing and you can make
stuff up and I can certain marks and I
can create new codecs and you know do it
all in a very isolated space which is
how it should be so here's a nice API
it's just it's missing the rest on stack
so that's the company so anyway what I
might do today I've been pondering it
one of my options is to just convert the
car library to new motor comments and
yeah I am bearing problem with that is I
need
it needs C ball to do the route block
header block so yeah that's that's where
I'm at now so that's me mix this area so
I have not a ton of technical things
reported this week because I ended up
doing a lot of coordination things but
there's plenty of fun days on that front
so first and foremost there's a bunch of
people working on high POV and selectors
and rust who are hanging out in the IRC
channels and that's really exciting
because lots of good questions are
getting raised I think some of the
discussions that we're having there we
want to totally want to go back through
the IRC logs at a later date to end turn
them into more documentation where
wherever there's gaps or just if those
things are documents to make them more
discoverable you know and some of the
stuff that we're uncovering there in
addition just being good to talk about
the people working on it are also doing
a bunch of tests vector development and
so we spend some time
talking about what will be a good way to
layout test vectors and like which parts
are not obvious but you really want to
get the vectors to cover and I'm really
excited about that so there's already
draft test vector content that these
folks are pushing out and super exciting
so I'll probably at some point in the
future have more work that I'll take on
to make the go libraries that already
exist use those same test vectors but I
think that's going to be a awesome use
of time so super excited about that
and this might barely belong in our I
peel de team notes but in case anybody
else out there wants to do go and it's
starting to profile things I've been
taking a bunch of notes on the lessons
learned and put anyone else and do a
guest format that are some good getting
started so just want to put that out
there if anybody finds it useful and as
I've stirred up the specs repost stuff
I've made an early draft of an editing
dot MD file but I'm not entirely sure
I'm gonna want to go with this so there
will be an early draft toy stuff in a
little bit but probably gonna need a lot
of iteration but one of the main things
that I gathered and it is a bunch of
stuff from various conversations we've
had amongst ourselves when like an idea
comes up either from like somebody in
this video right now or like a PR comes
in from outer space on the internet and
we try to figure out if these things are
a good idea where they fit in with other
ideas and like what some balancing
factors are in trying to find the virtue
of the thing and so like checklist so if
we have this feature here will it
increase the complexity of this comic or
will it make this harder to port to a
new language or something like this
things that we informally think about
all the time we will try and reason
about this I try to put the Middle East
and so yeah maybe that'll be useful but
it'll probably need a lot of room you
too because it's also one of those very
meta things that's very hard to apply so
yeah looking forward to that
and the last thing that I did in this
week that is also very early IPL D but I
want to mention it briefly is I made a
new JSON codec for absolute giggles this
weekend just just for fun
it emits JSON tables and I probably
shouldn't try too hard to describe this
out loud because you kind of have to see
a picture and that's actually worth a
thousand words in this case but
basically if you pipe certain structures
of JSON format into it
this couric can auto detect what that
data looks like and be like ah you have
a list here and it has a bunch of Maps
maybe this list is the table and maybe
these map keys are all column headings
and then it'll basically pretty print
this using the non-semantic whitespace
to make nice human readable skimmable
stuff there's possibly no point to this
but I thought it would be a cool idea
wait on Sunday night so I did it turned
out that this was really easy to do with
all the api's in modern go activity
pride so that was cool proof of concept
in the future I'm thinking this might be
a fun thing to carry further because we
could use selectors the configuration
language to let people say oh yes please
highlight this sub section in this way I
don't know could could be a future fun
could be totally irrelevant we'll see
it's out here and that's it for me
thanks Eric and also things Ford for
taking on the selectors test vector
stuff because it was kind of like
pushing him to yeah just just talk to
Eric and then yeah so thanks for yeah
spending time on it so next one is my
car
hello yeah so who okay um sorry I'm a
little out of it today
um yeah so last week finished up the
gist multi for my stuff I took the
buffer removal PR that vulgar sense and
put another couple days into it took me
a lot longer to finish that but I
thought it would but I was a lot happier
I thought it would be so you know I paid
off after that gets reviewed that's
basically ready to go I can start
bringing over the block API and all the
codec implementations um the legacy API
got way bigger to handle a lot more than
it used to so it actually does sort of
full conversion from the old CIT so the
new CID is and for all the codecs and it
also swaps out buffer for you meant
eight array on all the old codecs stuff
so it's like quite a bit more code than
it used to be and it's definitely gonna
slow down the legacy codecs but if you
care about performance you should just
get off of the legacy stuff and fix your
problem put some time in the dag give me
over the weekend
I have functional indexes Maps and you
can do property indexes and then do like
sums and counts and stuff on that's
pretty cool and yeah I'm I'm off for a
couple weeks starting on Wednesday so
make sure you get anything you need to
me today or tomorrow cuz then I've got a
I'm gonna move during shelter-in-place
which is going to be an adventure that's
why I need a couple weeks to finish it
all out so and that's it for me nobody
is next yes but any questions or
comments or things to discuss or other
slightly I put you related things that
you've wrote that I want to share
[Music]
no I was gonna say how how strange it is
that Russ might get selectors before
JavaScript does I was thinking I was
thinking how cool there would be for
some of these work now because I've got
these really interest
in graphs it would be so cool to have
select in the way you could you could do
something like take a block and extract
values out of it
look at different components of it and
make a really cool little presentation
talk on this stuff that I'm doing though
we just don't have those tools available
to us yeah so but know one thing is that
so
what and it might be surprising but the
selectors currently don't use what I
call rust IPL D so so so as the
selectors work comes from 500
when they currently don't use the rust I
believe that I work on but it's all
under control so no worries it's just
like we had different timelines but
basically my so after I finished that
block API probably I will then I think
rust I believe would be the good shape
to basically then start looking into
okay how can we get all their workers
also rust ficon into using the actual
rust I Polly and using all the
underlying little libraries like last CD
and rust Martinez and so on but just
like the smaller in between it's not the
same because they only care about see
bore at the moment and so that it was
easier for them but and I kind of made
sure in like some design meeting that
and they basically have the same
abstractions that we use in high poly so
it should be more or less just smoking
out and we'll be fine but hey we'll see
if they're doing selectors they probably
are gonna need more than see bore
because you can do in the recruitment
market you can do selectors over more
than just see boring yeah but they don't
care like they only care about suppose
at the moment so yeah I'm saying they
will care at least about beg PP in the
future because like that's what by
default the lowest like Lotus will
object like DB into those car files and
then like the whole point of the
selector engine that the writing has to
use material market yeah but I think
that like they might even use thick PV
bread bread like we see so but also like
for us like they pp is not like a proper
codec or at least like it so oh no
actually it actually isn't go
yeah it's nice yes actually actually the
the thing that we did so basically the
the reason so like I don't like three
weeks ago or something we had this
disappear are open about having a schema
forward egg PB this was actually
triggered by me seeing that they that
rusts icon people are doing a tag PB
code egg which is kind of to use it
which is using the eye peeled the data
model and therefore kind of like also
used what could be described as a schema
so they have it makes sense to see with
technically we agreed on how does take
PP look like in the IPL the data model
they see this was triggered by this so
they also do so your so it's actually
right they also use tech PB but they use
I think that could be they only need to
this utilized egg PB probably and they
only encode yeah they only encode
seaboard therefore they basically can go
so I'm not sure what they could do but
they could even go directly from rust
negative types to see more if they want
to without the data model but I think
they use the data model because I told
them to use the data model for this
reason so as I said it should like it
should work out but I just haven't had
the time and still don't have the time
but I'm confident that and we can just
use the selectors work that is currently
done also with then the rust I believe
that I'm working on let's totally the
plan and yeah and I will make sure this
happens so yeah cool it's interesting
that we either have super short meetings
or super long meetings we have never
something in between but it's cool yeah
so there's really no real update and I
still do care
with the 5 on 4 but what curly it looks
so I would say truly looks like that the
the people that need it the most are the
Russ ficon people so it's likely that
they saw sa moving very fast also with
the Spector stuff so we see they do this
select the stuff now to do the grousing
stuff so I would expect that they do the
graphs at least to a grousing
implementation I then need to coordinate
how we get those into rust ipfs but I
think they will do the rest implemented
so yes
but yeah other than that I don't know if
I should if I do it this week to get
also the other parties involved that's
true yeah so yeah but no further updates
on this there yeah yeah but so they will
be nap T next week so I promised an
update next week so I won't look on its
this weekend then yeah cool anything
else what about the JavaScript selectors
status and Tim I think works any but I
haven't heard an update from him lately
mm-hmm Michael do you have any update on
this so I pulled him off to do a go
library this week
so the Jas stuff definitely isn't
happening really soon like within the
next week or two so we won't have the
selector engine nsj as soon as I would
have liked um because we just had
another priority pop up for we need the
this string syntax for selectors to have
a go library for file coin
so yeah that's they got delayed a little
bit
it kind of fuel for I guess how far
along it is I think it's been pending
for a while and I heard an update for
like maybe a month or so oh I don't I
mean Tim just started working on it like
maybe a week ago so he hasn't been
actually putting in a ton of time just
to it until pretty recently but other
than that I don't I don't know exactly
what the status is but Tim is a on IRC
so if you wanna ping him in and check in
with him about it go for it
okay then if there's there isn't
anything else
I lost the meeting and thank everyone
for joining and yeah talk to you all
next week goodbye everyone
I